DATA DICTIONARY - averages_data
           
The dataset being used is: Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones
Abstract: Human Activity Recognition database built from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors.

Data Set Information:
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

Attribute Information:
For each record in the dataset it is provided: 
- Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration. 
- Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 


subject 		30 subjects type
activity		Activity Code
			1 WALKING
			2 WALKING_UPSTAIRS
			3 WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
			4 SITTING
			5 STANDING
			6 LAYING
The features of this dataset indicate accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. The prefix 't' to denote time.
	gravity,	BodyAcc,	BodyAccJer,	BodyGyro,	BodyGyroJerk
	BodyAccMag,	BodyGyroJerkMag,	GravityAccMag

tBodyAcc-mean()-X     		measurements on the mean     
tBodyAcc-mean()-Y			measurements on the mean
tBodyAcc-mean()-Z			measurements on the mean
tBodyAcc-std()-X           standard deviation
tBodyAcc-std()-Y			standard deviation
tBodyAcc-std()-Z			standard deviation
tGravityAcc-mean()-X       measurements on the mean
tGravityAcc-mean()-Y	    measurements on the mean
tGravityAcc-mean()-Z		measurements on the mean
tGravityAcc-std()-X     	standard deviation   
tGravityAcc-std()-Y		standard deviation
tGravityAcc-std()-Z 		standard deviation
tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X     measurements on the mean 
tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y 		measurements on the mean
tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z 		measurements on the mean
tBodyAccJerk-std()-X       standard deviation
tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y		standard deviation
tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z		standard deviation
tBodyGyro-mean()-X         measurements on the mean
tBodyGyro-mean()-Y  		measurements on the mean
tBodyGyro-mean()-Z  		measurements on the mean
tBodyGyro-std()-X          standard deviation
tBodyGyro-std()-Y   		standard deviation
tBodyGyro-std()-Z   		standard deviation
tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X     measurements on the mean
tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y		measurements on the mean
tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z		measurements on the mean
tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X      standard deviation
tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y 		standard deviation
tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z 		standard deviation
tBodyAccMag-mean()         measurements on the mean
tBodyAccMag-std()   		standard deviation
tGravityAccMag-mean() 		measurements on the mean
tGravityAccMag-std()       standard deviation
tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()		measurements on the mean
tBodyAccJerkMag-std() 		standard deviation
tBodyGyroMag-mean()        measurements on the mean
tBodyGyroMag-std()  		standard deviation
tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()    measurements on the mean 
tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()     standard deviation
fBodyAcc-mean()-X   		measurements on the mean
fBodyAcc-mean()-Y   		measurements on the mean
fBodyAcc-mean()-Z          measurements on the mean
fBodyAcc-std()-X    		standard deviation
fBodyAcc-std()-Y    		standard deviation
fBodyAcc-std()-Z           standard deviation
fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X 		measurements on the mean
fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y 		measurements on the mean
fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z      measurements on the mean
fBodyAccJerk-std()-X		standard deviation
fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y		standard deviation
fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z       standard deviation
fBodyGyro-mean()-X  		measurements on the mean
fBodyGyro-mean()-Y  		measurements on the mean
fBodyGyro-mean()-Z         measurements on the mean
fBodyGyro-std()-X   		standard deviation
fBodyGyro-std()-Y   		standard deviation
fBodyGyro-std()-Z          standard deviation
fBodyAccMag-mean()  		measurements on the mean
fBodyAccMag-std()   		standard deviation
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean() measurements on the mean
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()   standard deviation
fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()     measurements on the mean
fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()     standard deviation
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean() measurements on the mean
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std() standard deviation
